[docs] - Souped up ECS agent configuration reference (#9875)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/content/dagster-cloud/deployment/agents/amazon-ecs/configuration-reference.mdx

---
title: Amazon ECS agent configuration reference | Dagster Docs

platform_type: "cloud"
---

# Amazon ECS agent configuration reference

<Note>This guide is applicable to Dagster Cloud.</Note>

This reference describes the various configuration options Dagster Cloud currently supports for [Amazon ECS agents](/dagster-cloud/deployment/agents/amazon-ecs).

---

## Per-location configuration: Secrets and environment variables

When [adding a code location](/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/code-locations) to Dagster Cloud with an Amazon ECS agent, you can use the `container_context` key on the location configuration to add additional ECS-specific configuration that will be applied to any ECS tasks associated with that code location. The following example illustrates the available fields:

```yaml
location_name: cloud-examples
image: dagster/dagster-cloud-examples:latest
code_source:
  package_name: dagster_cloud_examples
container_context:
  ecs:
    env_vars:
      - FOO_ENV_VAR=foo_value
      - BAR_ENV_VAR
    secrets:
      - name: "MY_API_TOKEN"
        valueFrom: "arn:aws:secretsmanager:us-east-1:123456789012:secret:FOO-AbCdEf:token::"
      - name: "MY_PASSWORD"

>         valueFrom: "arn:aws:secretsmanager:us-east-1:123456789012:secret:FOO-AbCdEf:password::"

Reviewer: might wanna mention aws parameter store as well 

```
{
  "containerDefinitions": [{
    "secrets": [{
      "name": "environment_variable_name",
      "valueFrom": "arn:aws:ssm:region:aws_account_id:parameter/parameter_name"
    }]
  }]
}
```

Reviewer: edit: we actually don't add the iam perms to do this in the cf we provide

    secrets_tags:
      - "my_tag_name"
```

<ReferenceTable>
  <ReferenceTableItem propertyName="container_context.ecs.env_vars">
    A list of keys or key-value pairs to include in the task (if a value is not
    specified, the value will be pulled from the agent task). In the example
    above, `FOO_ENV_VAR` will be set to `foo_value` and the `BAR_ENV_VAR` will
    be set to whatever value it has in the agent task.
  </ReferenceTableItem>
  <ReferenceTableItem propertyName="container_context.ecs.secrets">
    Individual secrets specified using the [same structure as the ECS
    API](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/APIReference/API_Secret.html).
  </ReferenceTableItem>
  <ReferenceTableItem propertyName="container_context.ecs.secrets_tags">
    A list of tag names. Any secrets tagged with _any_ of those tag names in AWS
    Secrets Manager will be included in the launched tasks. These secrets must
    be key-value dictionaries.
  </ReferenceTableItem>
</ReferenceTable>

If you're using the Dagster Cloud Github action, the `container_context` key can also be set for each location in your `dagster_cloud.yaml` file, using the same format.

---

> ### Per-job configuration: Resource limits

Author: Oops yes this was supposed to be H2

> You can use job tags to customize the CPU and Memory of every run for that job:

Author: probably only when referring to the song from Cats, which is not the case here

> You can use job tags to customize the CPU and Memory of every run for that job:

Reviewer 2: 🎶 🐈

```py
from dagster import job, op

@op()
def my_op(context):
  context.log.info('running')

@job(
  tags = {
    "ecs/cpu": "256",
    "ecs/memory": "512",
  }
)
def my_job():
  my_op()
```

[Fargate tasks only support certain combinations of CPU and Memory.](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/task-cpu-memory-error.html)

> ## Per-deployment configuration

Author: this was moved from the manually provisioning page, also added some missing fields

This section describes the properties of the `dagster.yaml` configuration file used by Amazon ECS agents. Typically, this file is created by the Cloudformation template that deploys the agent, and can be found with the agent task definition's command. To change these properties, edit the cloudformation template and redeploy the Cloudformation stack.

```yaml

> instance_class:

Author: It's maybe interesting if people care about the internal workings of cloud, but not something you would ever change if you're running on ECS. It's also auto-generated by the CloudFormation - I was more thinking of this being page being for things that you would potentially want to go in and change. Not strongly held though

> instance_class:

Reviewer 2: Gotcha. I think it's fine to leave it then.

  module: dagster_cloud
  class: DagsterCloudAgentInstance

dagster_cloud_api:
  agent_token:
    env: DAGSTER_CLOUD_AGENT_TOKEN
  deployment: <Deployment>

user_code_launcher:
  module: dagster_cloud.workspace.ecs
  class: EcsUserCodeLauncher
  config:
    cluster: <Cluster Name>
    subnets:
      - <Subnet Id 1>
      - <Subnet Id 2>
    security_group_ids:
      - <Security Group ID>
    service_discovery_namespace_id: <Service Discovery Namespace Id>
    execution_role_arn: <Task Execution Role Arn>
    task_role_arn: <Task Role Arn>
    log_group: <Log Group Name>
    launch_type: <"FARGATE"|"EC2">
    server_process_startup_timeout: <Timeout in seconds>
```

### dagster_cloud_api properties

> <ReferenceTable>

Author: Those were in the old page that this was moved from and weren't a focus for this PR, but I can add them while we're in here

  <ReferenceTableItem propertyName="deployment">
    The name of the Dagster Cloud deployment associated with the agent.
  </ReferenceTableItem>
</ReferenceTable>

### user_code_launcher properties

<ReferenceTable>
  <ReferenceTableItem
  propertyName="config.cluster"
  >
  The name of an <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/create_cluster.html" target="_blank">ECS cluster</a> with a <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/cluster-capacity-providers.html" target="_blank">Fargate or EC2 capacity provider</a>.
  </ReferenceTableItem>
  <ReferenceTableItem
  propertyName="config.launch_type"
  >

>   An <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/launch_types.html" target="blank">ECS launch type</a> to use for your launched ECS tasks (currently FARGATE and EC2 are supported). Using an EC2 launch type will require you to have an EC2 capacity provider installed and will require more operational overhead to run the agent.

Reviewer 2: I suggest formatting this description like this to make it easier to read:

```suggestion
  An <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/launch_types.html" target="blank">ECS launch type</a> to use for your launched ECS tasks. The following are currently supported:
<ul>
<li><code>FARGATE</code></li>
<li><code>EC2</code> - <strong>Note:</strong> Using this launch type requires you to have an EC2 capacity provider installed and additional operational overhead to run the agent.</li>
</ul> 
```

I put `FARGATE` and `EC2` as code because I'm under the assumption that the value must be provided exactly that way (uppercase).

   <p>
    <strong>Note:</strong> This role must include a trust relationship that allows ECS to use it.
   </p>
  </ReferenceTableItem>
  <ReferenceTableItem
  propertyName="config.task_role_arn">
  The ARN of the <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/task-iam-roles.html" target="_blank">Amazon ECS task IAM role</a>. This role allows the containers running in the ECS task to interact with AWS. Refer to <a href="#step-2-create-required-ecs-iam-roles">Step 2 of this guide</a> for more info.

   <p>
    <strong>Note:</strong> This role must include a trust relationship that allows ECS to use it.
   </p>
  </ReferenceTableItem>
  <ReferenceTableItem
  propertyName="config.log_group">
  The name of a CloudWatch <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/logs/Working-with-log-groups-and-streams.html#Create-Log-Group" target="_blank">log group</a>.
  </ReferenceTableItem>
  <ReferenceTableItem
  propertyName="config.server_process_startup_timeout">

>   How long when waiting for your code to import when launching a new service for your code locations. If you see timeouts on the Workspace tab while waiting for a new
>   service to launch due to your code taking an unusually long time to load, you can increase this above the default of 180 seconds. Does not apply to the time it takes for your job to execute.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The amount of time, in seconds, to wait for code to import when launching a new service for a code location. If your code takes an unusually long time to load and results in timeouts in the <strong>Workspace</strong> tab, you can increase this setting above the default. <strong>Note</strong> This setting isn't applicable to the time it takes for a job to execute.
<ul>
<li><strong>Default</strong> - <pre>180</pre> (seconds)</li>
</ul>
```
